Finding the right talent.
So you've done your best on retaining your staff,
but life happens and you need to find new talent for your team,
either people have left or your business is growing
and you need to acquire more people.
Okay so let's explore my approach to finding the right talent.
So where will your new talent come from?
Let's first look inside your company.
It could be within IT itself,
maybe it's a large IT organization and there's other people
you think might be a good fit for your team,
it could be just some other departments outside of IT
where people may have the skills you need,
even broader, throughout an entire corporation,
if it's a world-wide corporation,
maybe even an internal customer that you have a great relationship with,
which might be a good fit inside your team now.
Now the benefits of going internal, of course,
is they know the company,
that might be a great growth opportunity for that person,
and certainly lower onboarding costs and maybe even
lower training costs as well.
Alright, now if that doesn't work or in addition you may need to look elsewhere,
let's look outside of the company, which is more typical for most organizations.
I would suggest you look internal to your company first,
they are a known entity and they always believe in promoting the
growth of internal people first over outside people.
But most new talent will likely come from the outside.
Okay, where are we going to find them?
Human resources,
this is typically the part of your company that will have the
policy and procedures on how to acquire talent.
Please talk to your manager and/or HR, human resources,
first before taking any external action.
Recruiters, there are a million recruiters out there,
some good and well some not so good.
There is a fee using recruiters and in some cases it may be worth it.
What can be nice is that they can prescreen the talent and their
resumes first to make your job a little easier.
But choose your recruiter wisely,
they can range from real professionals to those just selling snake oil.
Want ads, this is so easy now.
You can place ads on a multitude of websites at very reasonable fees.
I use this approach all the time and have been pretty lucky over the years.
References, I really like references.
This gives you a leg up on the person when someone you
know is aware of someone that might fit.
Never ever blame the person that gave you the
reference if the person does not work out,
since you will be following the solid proven process in this module
and ultimately you are responsible for the new hire,
not the person who gave you the reference.
Industry events, these events allow you to network and meet people.
It seems I always meet many people looking for new or better opportunities.
So come prepared with your business cards and maybe
even a copy of the job description.
Alright,
now let's see how a new hire may not only fulfill a current need or requirement,
but bringing dimension to your team.
Bummer, they left.
But now it is an opportunity to add new ideas,
new skills, et cetera that maybe you did not have before.
Let's see how we can leverage new talent.
Replace versus retool.
Is your goal to replace this person or possibly based on your projects
and plans that you have aligned to the business,
you may also consider hiring a person to quickly retool
your team rather than just replace.
Portfolio transition, somewhat similar to the last item,
but from the standpoint you just learned about some major shifts with
the business and maybe your portfolio is changing,
in other words,
you were the manager of the sales systems and maybe now
they're also giving you ecommerce.
This may require a whole new set of skills for your team
that you hadn't thought of before.
New skills, maybe the new person has such a rich set of new skills,
some of which you really don't need now,
but thinking of the future you might head your bets and
go with someone like this instead.
New capabilities, there are skills and there are capabilities.
Similar, but just slightly different to me.
Maybe this person is extremely capable,
has a personality that could be very effective with the customer,
especially if you're having some issues with that customer,
for the person who is leaving.
Maybe a new face and personal disposition might be just the right thing.
Succession planning,
maybe you've been thinking of a new opportunity in
another part of the company for yourself,
but you know your manager may not want you to take it and leave.
So hiring someone that could in fact replace you might
be what you have been looking for.
Maybe he or she has good technical skills,
but especially leadership skills, which are certainly needed to replace you.
And lastly, diversity.
Maybe someone with a wide range of interests,
backgrounds, experiences, viewpoints,
maybe bring a whole new emphasis to your team,
hence this slide was to open your mind to a variety of reasons
and perspectives on hiring that new person.
Other than just I've got to go out, replace that person skill for skill.
Okay now let's define the requirements that need to
be fulfilled by the new hire.
Treat this just like a system design, we need requirements before we can write some code.